want to get some pretty excited
that's a nice little turd
yup we've got 27 samples so far
which is far exceeded anybody's
expectations and pretty excited
we are here in Mongolia and the
northernmost part of the country
and place called the dark Valley
we're here to learn about
Wolverines together scat and DNA
evidence so we can learn about
their similarities to North
American populations so that we
can learn about their habits and
really gain any information we
can from this incredible species
that we just don't know anything
about this is a scat sample of a
Wolverine and it's a great scat
your hair in there and bone but
the really confounding thing is
this probably can't see it this
red blob in here that is
attached to the Scott and we're
just left to speculate on what
that is
we've got Jason with us who is a
world-renowned marine ecologist
Rebecca who is our mongolia
Wolverine expert we've got
forest with us who is an
adventure extraordinaire and
we've got gym with us whose
capturing the images for this
trip and a great way it will
rain here
Wolverine where there's water in
mongolia's will bring him uncle
and you know i think i think the
hard part is the bit
it's a climate that we haven't
been into before they get to be
called it's it could be real
called even I gotta call Snap
metronome it helps me keep time
when i'm breaking trail so he's
just come over pretty windy pass
pretty damn cold i'd guess with
the wind chill is about negative
oh I don't know maybe about zero
got a couple miles before we get
out of this wind and cold the
groups ahead of me
I can barely see them through
the white can't really tell
where the sky the ground meat
yeah pretty wild
we weren't what a mile up the
valley when this train of horses
appears and it's the very first
animals from this migration of
people moving into our house
valley for the summer time since
yesterday afternoon we've seen
what probably passed a thousand
stock animals they passed us
more accurate you can do like
the salmon upstream thing
following this trail as camels
oxen sheep goats people riding
horses carrying calves in their
lap it's a trip I've never seen
animals carry animals we come
somewhere over 300 miles
collected 29 Wolverine samples
scene 25 or so tracks
we've done what everybody is
feeling like was an amazing job
of documenting the natural
history of this range and we get
to finish on holy cow what a
spectacular day make sure plan
thanks for being part of it